h1. Boiler

Boiler is a base Rails 2.1 application that makes creating new projects easier and faster. It was originally cloned from Bort (by "Fudge Studios":http://www.fudgestudios.com). Boiler is developed and maintained by "Coreguardian":http://www.coreguardian.org

h2. Install

* Download and unzip Boiler (or clone the Github Repo)
* Edit the database.yml and the settings.yml files
* Add your own "Hoptoad":http://www.hoptoadapp.com key
* Rake db:migrate
* Build an awesome app.

h2. Plugins Installed

Boiler comes with a few commonly used plugins installed and already setup. The major difference between Bort and  Boiler is that Boiler uses Hoptoad rather thanException Notifier.

h3. RESTful Authentication

RESTful Authentication is already setup. The routes are setup, along with the mailers and observers.
Forgotten password comes setup, so you don't have to mess around setting it up with every project.

The AASM plugin comes pre-installed. RESTful Authentication is also setup to use user activation.

h3. User Roles

Boiler like Bort comes with "Role Requirement":http://code.google.com/p/rolerequirement/ by Tim Harper. A default 
admin role is predefined along with a default admin user. See the migrations for the admin login details.

h3. Open ID Authentication

Boiler has Open ID integrated with RESTful Authentication. Why? Because Bort hasOpen ID built in. Have you not got the message yet that this is mostly Bort witha few small changes.

h3. Will Paginate

will_paginate is a kick arse pagination plugin for rails. For more information check "here":http://github.com/mislav/will_paginate/wikis

h3. Rspec & Rspec-rails

You should be testing your code, so Boiler comes with Rspec and Rspec-rails already installed so you're
ready to roll.

h3. Hoptoad Notifier

Exception Notifier is good but Hoptoad Notifer is better

h3. Asset Packager

Packages up your css/javascript so you're not sending 143 files down to the user at the same time. Reduces
load times and saves you bandwidth.

h2. Routes

The routes for RESful Auth and the forgot password stuff are already sorted for you.

h2. Settings YAML

There is a settings.yml file that contains site-wide stuff. The site name, url and admin email are all used
in the RESTful Auth mailers, so you don't need to worry about editing them.

h2. Database YAML

The database.yml defaults to sqlite3 but also contains the settings for MySQL in comments so you can switch
over easily.

h2. Capistrano Recipe

Boiler comes ready to rock capistrano. The recipe that is setup is based on using git and passenger. It's ready
to go with multistage deployments. It deploys to the production config by default, so if you don't need it
you can ignore it. Just update config/deploy/production.rb with your deployment settings.

More info on capistrano-ext/multistage deployments can be found here: http://weblog.jamisbuck.org/2007/7/23/capistrano-multistage 

h2. Misc 

* password and password_confirmation are set up to be filtered
* there is a default application layout file
* a page title helper has been added
* index.html is already deleted
* rails.png is already deleted
* a few changes have been made to the default views
* a default css file with blank selectors for common rails elements

h2. Credits

Bort put together by people at "Fudge":http://www.fudgestudios.com/ (thank you so much!) 
